SHIFTING AWAY FROM FOSSIL FUELS TO A CLEAN ENERGY FUTURE
Americans have been hit with unprecedented prices at the pump recently. With gas prices soaring to over $6 a gallon in parts of the country, it’s no surprise that Americans’ interest in electric vehicles (EVs) is at an all-time high. As gas prices started to climb in March of this year, Google Trends reported that search interest in EVs reached a record high, and web searches for the phrase “how much does it cost to charge an electric car” were up more than 400 percent.

But in addition to rising gas prices, our changing climate demands a shift away from fossil fuels to renewables and clean energy sources—now more than ever.

Exelon committed to electrifying half our own vehicle fleet by 2030 and has joined initiatives such as the National Electric Highway Coalition to help create a seamless network of rapid EV charging stations connecting major highway systems. We are committed to helping our communities transition to transportation electrification by expanding local charging infrastructure; offering rebates, incentives, and innovative rates; and electrifying public transportation.

Widespread adoption of EVs has incredible potential to combat climate change and will save our customers money. Using the Department of Energy’s eGallon calculation, the yearly cost of owning an EV is approximately $1.30 per gallon, compared to the price of gasoline at $4.30 per gallon. On average, customers in Exelon’s service areas could save more than $1,000 per year in fuel costs by switching to an EV. Utilizing Exelon’s EV time-of-use rates could offer additional percent savings per year.

But this all requires robust investments in the electric grid. Modernizing the electric grid will ensure it is more resilient and can meet the increased demand for electricity associated with not only transportation electrification, but also climate resilience and adaptation of the energy ecosystem.

That’s one reason why we were a proud sponsor of the EPRI Electrification 2022 International Conference & Exposition that just wrapped up this week in Charlotte, NC. And why we recently joined Climate READi, an initiative launched by the Electric Power Research Institute. Climate READi is a three-year initiative focused on developing resilient energy systems against the effects of climate change. The partnership will bring together energy companies, leading scientists, regulators and other stakeholders to analyze and plan our resilient and efficient energy systems of the future.

We also remain committed to our “Path to Clean” initiative, which will reduce our emissions from operations by 50% by the year 2030 and achieve net-zero operations by the year 2050. As we pursue this goal, we have focused on maintaining our utilities’ track record of dependable and affordable energy for customers while supporting our communities in their own clean energy transitions.

Additionally, Exelon is prioritizing affordability as we continue our efforts to modernize the electric grid, reduce emissions and transition to cleaner energy sources. Affordability isn’t just important to our customers’ and communities' wallets right now, it’s an essential part of long-term and sustainable investments in tackling climate change.

Electrification and a transition to clean energy solutions are core to who we are at Exelon. We are committed to delivering convenient, affordable and equally accessible clean transportation options for the communities we serve that will lead us all to a cleaner, brighter future.

WE NEED TO LISTEN TO THE EXPERTS: CLEAN TRANSPORTATION SAVES LIVES
 
Calvin Butler
10/5/2020 1:00 PM
​We have the power to save thousands of lives and reap hundreds of billions in health and climate benefits, while also reducing air pollution in communities of color that are most vulnerable to air pollution and the effects of climate change.

That happens only if we transition to electric transportation from harmful fuel combustion by 2050, according to the American Lung Association. Last week, the ALA released its sobering but inspiring report, “The Road to Clean Air,” quantifying the impact on public health from electrifying the transportation sector, which currently represents about a third of total U.S. greenhouse gas emissions.

Using a variety of transportation and emissions models, as well as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s public health benefits modeling tools, the ALA determined that widespread transition to zero-emission transportation could add up to $72 billion in avoided health care costs, annually saving approximately 6,300 lives and avoiding more than 93,000 asthma attacks and 416,000 lost work days annually.

When reports like this hit my inbox, I immediately want to understand the potential impact on the customers we serve at Exelon. The numbers are staggering. If our communities transition to clean transportation, we could realize more than $9 billion in avoided health care costs and nearly 800 prevented deaths annually in Illinois, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, and the District of Columbia. Transportation electrification holds the promise of helping us meet environmental goals, reduce carbon footprints, bring life-saving cleaner air for residents, and create economic opportunity through job creation and reduced energy costs.

No summer could better illustrate the urgency of making this transition than that of 2020. Hurricanes and derechos are battering the East and Gulf Coasts and the Midwest. Deadly wildfires rage on the West Coast. Over everything hangs the constant, fatal impact of COVID-19, which attacks the respiratory system. Like air pollution, we know unequivocally that this deadly virus that attacks the respiratory system also disproportionately sickens and kills people of color. We saw over and over this summer that we cannot delay in taking action.

So it was fitting in June that Exelon announced our aggressive goal to electrify 30 percent of our vehicle fleet by 2025 and 50 percent of our fleet by 2030. Hitting that goal potentially avoids more than 65,000 metric tons of greenhouse gas emissions from this year through 2030. That’s the carbon-avoidance equivalent of planting and growing 1 million trees for 10 years. Our six Exelon utilities, serving 10 million customers, will make this transition through a combination of fully electric vehicles, plug-in hybrids, and vehicles with idle mitigation units.

Individual consumer choices are just one part of the equation. The public and commercial sectors must make the shift to electric transportation to truly make a dent in our carbon footprint. We are joining such companies as Amazon, DHL, and IKEA North America, who have made similar commitments within their industries.

Corporate responsibility commitments like ours to fight climate change must be matched by action at all levels of government, with policy changes that make zero-emission transportation not just possible, but realistic and equitable. That includes ensuring consumers have full access to electric transportation options – including through public transportation, taxis, and ridesharing – as well as charging infrastructure. Additionally, state authority under the Clean Air Act must be protected.

Transportation electrification options and charging infrastructure must be available in all communities, not just the most affluent. Low-income communities bear the brunt of pollution burdens and they deserve equity when it comes to access to and benefits from climate solutions such as electrified transportation.

We talk frequently about our purpose at Exelon: powering a cleaner and brighter future for our customers and communities. It’s not just talk. We have taken tangible steps forward as we work toward and advocate for the desperately needed shift to electrified transportation that the ALA called for this week.

The ALA started the clock, which gives our nation 30 years to make the change happen. But for a child living in a neighborhood filled with transportation-fueled air pollution, we can’t wait another day. Let’s get to work now, together.  

MEET THE NEXT GENERATION OF ENERGY INNOVATORS AT EXELON
 
 
8/22/2017 5:00 PM
​​Overheard at the 2017 Exelon Innovation Expo in Washington, D.C.:

“This feels like a super grown-up science fair...only nerdier.” 

“Is that one of those underwater robots from SeaQuest?” 

“What do you mean ‘carbon scrubber’? Is that like a Roomba?”

The Innovation Expo brought together more than 2,000 Exelon employees, industry innovators, scientists, engineers, makers and energy leaders to demonstrate the best ideas and inventions that address the challenges facing the energy industry. They did not disappoint. It was tough to pick only six winners from more than 500 teams – each one had great ideas.

This year, the final six presentations were livestreamed to Exelon sites around the country and to our audience online through Facebook and YouTube. For the first time, Exelon employees around the country could participate and vote for their favorite ideas, all without having to travel to the Expo. Here are a few great examples of what it means to be an innovator at Exelon:

Smoother Storm Response
​

Thunderstorms frequently change and can often become very strong, very suddenly, making it hard to predict exactly what the impact to an area will be.

"This feels like a super grown-up science fair...only nerdier."


SLIQ (Storm Live Interactive Qlik), from Senior Business Analyst Dan Butcher and his team at PECO, uses hyper-local data from past outages and current weather conditions to respond to an outage rapidly and  predict where one is most likely to occur. This allows crews to stand ready to respond when it is safe to do so, ensuring the shortest outages possible. Although outages might never be completely unavoidable, the SLIQ Platform will improve response time, reduce downtime and create a more reliable customer experience by leveraging QLIK Sense technology, business intelligence software, to enable real-time analytics.

Scrubbing our Atmosphere 
 

As the nation’s leading provider of clean energy, Exelon is constantly striving to reduce our carbon footprint — and the carbon footprint of our customers — through zero-carbon energy from our nuclear plants and renewable energy from solar and wind.

Most people think about reducing our carbon footprint by reducing what we emit and using fuel sources that don’t contain carbon in the first place. But what if we could scrub carbon already emitted from the atmosphere? That’s where IT Analyst Nate Bender and his fellow Constellation employees come in. Their Air Carbon project removes carbon from the atmosphere and collects it for other uses. Using giant fans, air is pumped through a chemical process that removes the carbon dioxide. The pure CO2 can then be converted to transportation fuels in a secondary process, or sold as an industrial commodity. Innovation like this will help us get us closer to our goal of becoming carbon neutral.

Peek Inside: Digital Plant Viewer

Nuclear plant employees use a vast array of mapping, telemetry and other data systems to run the plant on a daily basis, but those systems aren’t available in one spot. The Digital Plant Innovation Team wanted to change that.

Digital Plant Viewer was developed by Innovation Specialist Brian Carroll and was first implemented at Exelon Generation’s Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant. It brings information from several of the nuclear plant’s most vital systems into one place, in one app, available on just about any device. Developmental Manager Cliff Gray now leads the implementation team, and the app is being enhanced to include electronic survey creation and display in the same interface. This app allows everyone on site to see information on an interactive map from all around in the plant. This tool allows us to work safer and smarter, while delivering clean, emission-free electricity to our customers.

At Exelon, we see every challenge as an opportunity to innovate and create the solutions that matter most for our customers. These ideas won’t just affect the way we operate — they’re changing the entire industry, making the world around us cleaner, smarter and more efficient.

Thank you to all our innovators at Exelon. We’re excited to see where they go with the ideas they presented, and we can’t wait to see what they come up with next year!

OW OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH GE PUTS DATA TO WORK
We’re using an advanced analytics to improve reliability for our 10 million customers
 
1/10/2018 11:00 AM
​​Exelon puts data to work to improve reliability for our 10 million customers

Data powers the world around us. Power that keeps the heat on during cold winter months, power to make holiday decorations sparkle and power to cook meals shared with family and friends. And at Exelon, data enables us to provide more reliable energy, quicker outage response and more efficient use solutions. We know that it’s about more than just keeping the lights on, which is why we are implementing the most innovative energy solutions for our customers. 

We recently announced a multi-year agreement with GE to deploy the Predix software solutions serving all six of Exelon’s utilities. The advanced analytics platform will take data generated from Exelon’s Smart Grid and Smart Meters and transform it into action.  Action that enhances safety and takes energy reliability to the next level. 

What does this mean for our customers? 

Better energy solutions. On the path of continuous improvement, technologies such as Predix can help our utilities provide more reliable and affordable energy, all with our customers’ expectations in mind. Historical and real-time data can help storm crews predict where outages might happen, and get safely pre-positioned before a storm.  Data can help us forecast when a piece of equipment is due for maintenance, before it becomes an issue. That helps our utilities perform better and minimize any disruption to customers. 

“When it comes to storm restoration, it will enable the utilities to become more surgical in prepositioning crews in advance of weather events – saving time and money, improving customer satisfaction and enhancing safety for our people.”

Brian Hurst, Exelon’s VP & Chief Analytics Officer.

​ 
Watch  Brian Hoff share an update on our progress with GE Predix in our Generation Fleet as Brian Hurst discusses our Exelon Utilities Analytics strategy and a new agreement at GE’s Minds + Machines conference.

For Exelon Generation, Predix takes data from wind turbines, hydro-electric dams and nuclear power plants and transforms that data into a “digital twin” of our assets. With these digital twins, we can run predictive analytics and create actionable intelligence to address any issues. This new capability allows us to optimize the performance of our assets, make smarter decisions with our maintenance resources and improve our sustainability profile. 

Exelon’s position as an innovation leader and the only Fortune 100 Company in the energy ​sector provides us with a unique opportunity to develop and adopt new digital technologies, including co-developing Predix-based applications specifically for the energy industry to provide next-generation solutions.

EXPLORING TECHNOLOGY’S NEXT FRONTIER
 
 
6/21/2018 3:00 PM
​We encourage a culture of innovation at Exelon, bringing together passionate employees and external experts to develop creative solutions that advance the future of energy.

Read on to learn about our initiatives, investments and innovation champions.
HERE’S WHAT WE’RE WORKING ON
Microsoft Hololens
An augmented reality headset. Augmented Reality (AR) is a technology that projects computer-generated visual content into a user’s view of the real world, thus augmenting what they see with additional information. We’re exploring how to use the Hololens AR headset to guide workers through routine tasks in a hands-free way, through timely holographic information.

Blockchain
A digital, decentralized transaction ledger. Blockchain technology enables secure transactions of digital assets. We’re exploring blockchain’s ability to flatten traditional hierarchies, reduce time delay and minimize the cost of doing business. One way we’re doing that today is through our partnership with the non-profit Energy Web Foundation, who is creating a blockchain application to track renewable energy and associated carbon assets for the certificate of origin markets. The markets will use the new common platform to simplify and expand the tracking process across multiple international regions.

Digital Worker Initiative
Using technology to enhance our workforce. This initiative focuses on the human side of technology, and how to employ it to improve worker productivity, safety and knowledge sharing. Recent projects include Udentify, a mobile app that will eventually use artificial intelligence (AI) to recognize system defects from worker submitted images; and Hawkeye, a co-innovation with GE to investigate potential analytic apps that could have a positive impact on outage performance.

Safety Peer Group
Testing new and innovative methods for improving safety performance. The Safety Peer Group works to identify successful pilot programs or new practices that can then be adopted by the entire corporation. For example, BGE Home piloted the SuitX, an exoskeleton system designed to reduce musculoskeletal injuries. Use of the system may provide employees with protection from strains and sprains, even employees with previous injuries or illnesses.

Constellation Technology Ventures (CTV)
Investing in emerging energy technology companies. CTV invests in growth-stage companies representing technological or business model innovations that complement or disrupt our core businesses, with the goal of providing new solutions to our companies and our customers. An example investment is XL, the leading company in connected fleet electrification solutions for commercial and municipal fleets. XL’s proprietary electrified technology increases fuel economy for commercial trucks by 25 to 50 percent.

TechEXChange
Exploring transformational technology. TechEXChange is the combined group of teams across the company charged with exploring the transformational technology that can upend energy markets. One example of how we promote early adoption of promising new technologies is our partnership with Bloom Energy to build fuel cell projects at commercial facilities. In 2017, the TechEXChange also focused on early-stage technologies such as alternative fuels like hydrogen to drive value for our customers now and in the future.

Innovation Expo
Bringing employees together to learn and share. Our Innovation Team hosted the sixth annual Innovation Expo in Washington D.C., focusing on the theme “Customer Centricity,” with more than 2,700 people in attendance. More than 500 employees submitted their ideas on how to provide reliable, safe and clean energy to our customers. Project finalists included an innovative way to remove carbon from the atmosphere and collect it for other uses, and an analytics platform that uses hyper-local data from past outages and current weather conditions to respond to an outage rapidly.

DOUBLE THE TROUBLE: HOW TECH PARTNERSHIPS ARE SHAKING UP THE ENERGY INDUSTRY
Electric vehicles, the industrial Internet, fuel cells: Exelon is partnering with leading innovators to develop solutions to tackle the greatest energy challenges
Chris Gould, Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy
7/13/2017 4:00 PM
​​Two minds are greater than one. The world’s best innovators embrace others’ ideas.

That’s why at Exelon, we actively pursue partnerships with start-ups, companies, research labs and universities to develop new, innovative solutions to tackle America’s greatest energy challenges. We showcased these partnerships, as well as our own employees’ ideas, at our Innovation Expo on June 27. 

We’re building the future today and embracing ideas from every corner of the country. Our team is eager to take you behind the scenes and show off the groundbreaking technology and programs we’re shaping and developing this year. Check out the Exelon partnerships that are currently shaking up the energy industry—big time.  

General Electric: Pairing the Internet of Things, Advanced Analytics and Energy Production

Predix, GE Power’s cloud-based software, connects our generation fleet to a single data stream, providing real-time insights from turbines and generators. Prior to Predix, data streams were split across the various parts of a plant’s operations. Equipped with streamlined data, operators can now deliver actionable, high-level insights faster than ever before.

How we’re using it: Predix warns operators when systems need repairs, which shortens maintenance time and minimizes unplanned outages; it also predicts wind speeds one hour in advance, allowing wind farms to gauge daily production and reduce energy loss; and it’s helping make our best-in-class nuclear equipment more reliable and cost-efficient. These are just a few of the many ways Predix is transforming our company one megabyte of data at a time. 


Nissan: Making Electric Vehicles Easy and Effortless

Electric vehicles are still a niche market; they represent less than 1 percent of all vehicles purchased. Why the lag? Many Americans have questions about EVs, including the price, how they charge and if the batteries die, among others.


To accelerate electric vehicle adoption, Constellation is working with Nissan to market EVs as affordable and practical. EZ-EV is the solution. It’s the one-stop shop for all things EV-related. Aside from the $10,000 discount on a brand-new, zero-emission Nissan Leaf, EZ-EV provides deals on charging stations and electricity, and makes the whole process of buying an EV effortless. It’s a one-stop shop for all-things EV. 

Why we’re doing: Constellation’s goal is to replace gas-guzzling vehicles with cars that use the fuel of the future: clean energy. Transportation represents 26 percent of America’s greenhouse gas emissions. To tackle climate change, we need more clean energy solutions. 

Bloom Energy and City of Hartford: Providing Clean Energy and Keeping the Lights on During a Natural Disaster 



The city of Hartford, Connecticut, needed a way to maintain energy during natural disasters. Constellation and Bloom Energy stepped in to help, installing one of the state’s first microgrids, an independent, self-sustaining power supply. 

How it works: The energy is developed by fuel cell technology, which converts natural gas into energy onsite. The process leaves almost no pollution. (Fun fact: NASA originally developed this technology to generate power and oxygen during space exploration.)

The microgrid provides clean energy to four key buildings: Hartford’s Parkville Elementary School, Dwight Branch Library, Parkville Senior Center and Charter Oak Health Center. During an emergency, it powers these locations along with a local gas station and grocery store so residents can purchase essentials such as food and water. Any excess energy generated reduces electricity costs at four local schools. To learn more about the City of Hartford micro grid visit https://youtu.be/2gMv-Diaxow.
